In this video I'll demonstrate how to configure net flow on a vees fair distributed switch.
So here we are in the networking view of the vees faire web client and I'm going to go ahead and click
on my VCP dash demo.
These are distributed switch and under the configure tab you will see this net flow option here.
Now if you're not familiar with net flow what this is going to do is it's going to allow the distributed
switch to send traffic flows or essentially summaries of the traffic that's occurring to a server that
collects all of those records.
And that's what you would put in here the collector IP address.
So let's say that my net flow server is at the address out 1.1 to 34 and I'll specify the port as well
and then I'll also go ahead and configure an IP address for the VSE for a distributed switch itself.
All right because here's essentially what's going to happen.
The Wii's for a distributed switch is going to be collecting and producing all of these little reports
called the traffic flows and it's going to have to somehow transmit those to a net flow collector.
And by the fault of these for distributed switch doesn't have a management address or anything like
that.
So we need to establish a management IP address on this particular vse for a distributed switch.
So we'll go ahead and we'll give it an IP address to allow the switch to actually start to send information
to the net flow server.
And so that's how you configure net flow it's pretty straightforward.
You've got a number of different options for potential net flow servers.
Probably the most commonly well-known one is solar winds but there's plenty of other options out there
as well these days and you can use that to look at traffic patterns like for example which virtual machines
are generating the most traffic what traffic is occurring on which ports and you can look at a historical
record which can really help you to troubleshoot and analyze traffic patterns even though they may be
very inconsistent or temporary in nature.
This gives you the ability to kind of go back in time and look at what has happened historically.